## Why did I drop the blog

The short version of this entry would be something like: _"the project had some issues, and I had a lot of issues, and these issues combined were just too much."_

Oh, you want the _long_ version. Ok. You asked for it.

### Project issues

The root cause for most of the problems with the project was my **choice of not having planned a narrative**.

Since I wanted to illustrate the impact of design decisions in the how easy —or how difficult— it is to implement your features, I decided not to think ahead. My only rule was **to have a working product at the end of every post.**

This two choices resulted in more trouble than I anticipated. I started every post with no knowledge of what would imply working in my next "iteration", and that usually meant hours spent reading specification documents and digging into a version of the source code that didn't match the one from the docs.

Eventually, I ended up working a buffer of future posts to be published on a schedule, so that I had time to look ahead and make any changes I needed in the posts and code so that future extensions didn't involve a lot of rewriting.

### Personal issues

These issues all boil down to just one thing: [**my major depressive disorder**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_depressive_disorder) —maybe depression with anxious distress, but I'm no psychiatrist. For those so fortunate that have no idea what that implies, let me just say it's beyond feeling _sad_. It's also the inability of finding motivation, energy, focus, interest, or joy in any usually enjoyable activity. _And_ feeling guilty for feeling like that.

In my case, I have **bursts of mania that result in feverish activity** on a particular subject, quickly followed by a complete loss of interest on whatever I was doing, finding it —_and_ me— suddenly useless. It's happened to me many times and, even being aware of my condition, and having been warned  of its implications time and again by my psychologist, I still can't help falling into that slippery slope.

Strictly speaking about the blog, there was an extra reason. I was right in the middle of a decision making process about whether to keep working as a freelancer or join a company and, since there was no option without a downside —yeah, as if…— I was under **heavy stress.**

On top of all this, pile the fact that **having a publishing schedule meant additional pressure,** that **having no clear idea of how to continue** from where I stood at the end of my buffer **was giving me anxiety,** and that **I started feeling like I wasn't capable of doing it,** and you've got the whole picture.

---

<font size="1">[**◀ Back**](../0001.md)</font>